[docs] How to add packages based on new templates (#12931)
conan-io/conan-center-index: docs/how_to_add_packages.md

The specific steps to add new packages are:
* Fork the [conan-center-index](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index) git repository, and then clone it locally.

> * Copy a template from [package_templates](package_templates) folder in the correct folder, which fits your project. Read their [documentation](package_templates/README.md) to find more information.

Reviewer: what is the `correct folder` here?

Author: yes, bad explained. It should a the new package folder. An example should be added to illustrate.

Author: Updated, now it points recipe folder as target

### `conandata.yml`

This file lists **all the sources that are needed to build the package**: source code, patch files, license files,... any file that will be used by the recipe
should be listed here. The file is organized into two sections, `sources` and `patches`, each one of them contains the files that are required
for each version of the library. All the files that are downloaded from the internet should include a checksum, so we can validate that
they are not changed.

A detailed breakdown of all the fields can be found in [conandata_yml_format.md](conandata_yml_format.md). We **strongly** encourage adding the [patch fields](conandata_yml_format.md#patches-fields) to help track where patches come from and what issue they solve.

Inside the `conanfile.py` recipe, this data is available in a `self.conan_data` attribute that can be used as follows:

```py
def export_sources(self):
    for patch in self.conan_data.get("patches", {}).get(self.version, []):
        files.copy(self, p["patch_file"], self.recipe_folder, self.export_sources_folder)

> def source(self):

Author: export_sources is executed first.

different versions in different folders. For mainteinance reasons, we prefer to have only one recipe, but sometimes the extra effort doesn't worth
it and it makes sense to split and duplicate it, there is no common rule for it.

Together with the recipe, there can be other files that are needed to build the library: patches, other files related to build systems,

> ... all these files will usually be listed in the `exports_sources` attribute and used during the build process.

Reviewer 2: We mostly use the method

```suggestion
... all these files will usually be listed in `exports_sources`  and used during the build process.
```

Also, **every `conanfile.py` should be accompanied by one or several folder to test the generated packages** as we will see below.

### The test package folders: `test_package` and `test_<something>`

All the packages in this repository need to be tested before they join ConanCenter. A `test_package` folder with its corresponding `conanfile.py` and
a minimal project to test the package is strictly required. You can read about it in the

> # FIXME: This link no longet exist and there is no dedicated section about test package in docs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# FIXME: This link no longer exists and there is no dedicated section about the test package in docs.
```

> # FIXME: This link no longet exist and there is no dedicated section about test package in docs.

Author: https://github.com/conan-io/docs/issues/2750

### Header Only

If you are looking for header-only projects, you can take a look on [header-only template](package_templates/header_only).
Also, Conan Docs has a section about [how to package header-only libraries](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/howtos/header_only.html).

### CMake

For C/C++ projects which use CMake for building, you can take a look on [cmake package template](package_templates/cmake_package).

#### Components

Another common use case for CMake based projects, both header only and compiled, is _modeling components_ to match the `find_package` and export the correct targets from Conan's generators. A basic examples of this is [cpu_features](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/blob/master/recipes/cpu_features/all/conanfile.py), a moderate/intermediate example is [cpprestsdk](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/blob/master/recipes/cpprestsdk/all/conanfile.py), and a very complex example is [OpenCV](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/blob/master/recipes/opencv/4.x/conanfile.py).

> Note that Conan is migrating toward the version 2.0 and many repices are outdated when related to components feature. To understand who to migrate components read [properties migration](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/migrating_to_2.0/properties.html#properties-migration).

Reviewer: what exactly does it mean? `many repices are outdated when related to components feature`.
should I (as a reader or as a consumer) be worried about it? should I update something specific?

Author: Current "real" examples can be outdated, when copied. But indeed it should be updated for a better comprehension

Reviewer: yes, I think it's too confusing for newcomers.
if something should be updated when copied, then it should be clearly specified, like `replace "X" with "Y"`.
or even better, it should use already updated recipe as an example, or we should just update `cpu_features`/`cpprestsdk`/`opencv`.
it's a bit counter-productive to recommend something that is already outdated for users.

Author: Yes, just removed that paragraph, as those recipes support both V1 and V2, which means, newcomers can read to have some insight without further explanation now.

pacman, brew, choco) and install packages which are missing on Conan Center but available for most distributions. It is key to correctly fill in the `cpp_info` for the consumers of a system package to have access to whatever was installed.

As example there is [xorg](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/blob/master/recipes/xorg/all/conanfile.py). Also, it will require an exception rule for [conan-center hook](https://github.com/conan-io/hooks#conan-center), a [pull request](https://github.com/conan-io/hooks/pulls) should be open to allow it over the KB-H032.

### Verifying Dependency Version

Some project requirements need to respect a version constraint. This can be enforced in a recipe by accessing the [`dependencies`](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/reference/conanfile/dependencies.html) attribute.
An example of this can be found in the [fcl recipe](https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/blob/1b6b496fe9a9be4714f8a0db45274c29b0314fe3/recipes/fcl/all/conanfile.py#L80).

```py
def generate(self):
    foobar = self.dependencies["foobar"]
    tc = CMakeToolchain(self)
    tc.variables["FOOBAR_VERSION"] = foobar.ref.version

> ```

Reviewer: new example code doesn't introduce any constraint, it only sets `FOOBAR_VERSION`... am I missing the point here?

Reviewer: but it doesn't reject any configurations here

Author: done, now it uses dependency version on validate

conan config install
```

### Linters

> Some linters are always executed by Github actions to validate parts of your recipe, for instance, if it uses migrated Conan tools imports.

Reviewer: `Some` - which?

Author: https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/pull/12946
